C-BGP coding conventions
========================
(bqu@info.ucl.ac.be)


Variables naming:
=================
Variable names should inform about their meaning. In addition,
variable names can inform the user on the variable type. Our coding
convention is to prefix any variable with a short set of letters that
indicate the variable type. We use the following prefixes:

  c  : char
  b  : unsigned char
  i  : int
  u  : unsigned int
  l  : long
  p  : pointer
  pp : pointer to pointer
  a  : array
  t  : user-defined type
  e  : enumeration
  s  : structure

These prefixes can be combined together. Here are some examples for the
'Var' variable:

  unsigned int uVar;
  void * pVar;
  char * pcVar;
  char acVar[10];
  my_type_t tVar;
  SMyStruct sVar;
  SMyStruct * psVar; // we also use pVar in this case when the
                     // variable name is meaningful.


User-defined types:
===================
User-defined types can be divided in different categories: simple
types and structured types. Simple types are types that are based on
existing simple types such as integers, chars, etc. Structured types
are types that are defined using the struct keyword and that contain
multiple fields. The naming convention for simple types is to use a
type name followed by the '_t' suffix. In addition, the name of a
simple type only uses lower cased letters. For instance, the following
statement defines the type 'net_addr_t' which is an alias for a
32-bits long unsigned integer:

  typedef uint32_t net_addr_t;

The naming convention for structured types is to use the 'S' prefix
(for 'structure'). For instance, the following statement defines the
type 'SRoute':

  typedef struct {
    net_addr_t tNextHop;
    net_addr_t tDestNetwork;
    unsigned char bMaskLen;
  } SRoute;


C files:
========
A single C file should group data structure and functions that are
closely related. Our convention is close to O.O. programming. A single
C file contains the functions that are used to create instances of an
object. An object can be a stack, a route or a router. The functions
contained in the C file will operate on instances of this object. For
instance, suppose that file 'foo.c' defines the SFoo data structure
that represents an object 'foo'. Then the name of the functions that
operate on the SFoo data structure will start with 'foo_'. Suppose
that 'foo.c' contains a function that creates 'foo' objects and
functions that destroy such objects, then their signatures will look
like:

  SFoo * foo_create();
  void foo_destroy(SFoo * pFoo);

In addition to this, each .c file must include the configuration
header file 'config.h' at the beginning, i.e. before including any
other header (.h) file. The following lines should be used:

  #ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H
  # include <config.h>
  #endif


Header files:
=============
Header files (.h files) should contain C preprocessor statement that
completely encloses the code. These statements will test and define a
macro whose name should be based on the .h file name. For instance, if
your file is named 'foo.h', use a macro named __FOO_H__. Before any
code, use an #ifndef statement that will test if the macro is
defined. If the macro is already defined, the C preprocessor will skip
the remaining of the code. Otherwise, define the macro using the
#define statement. Here is an example:

[foo.h]
#ifndef __FOO_H__
#define __FOO_H__
...code here...
#endif


Private functions:
==================
These are functions that should not be called from outside an object
(basically a .c file). These functions should be declared 'static' and
have their name starting with an '_'. In addition these functions
should not be declared in the corresponding .h file. If a prototype is
required for these functions, it has to be put at the beginning of the
.c file where the function is declared.


Variable declarations:
======================
Local variable declarations can only be done at the beginning of
functions. Declaration of variables at any point in the code is
PROHIBITED since it breaks the compilation process on some
platforms. Indeed, such declarations are not supported by every C
compiler !!!
